Colin Brandys and Tyler Tyresius Tippens
Project Outline
Abstract: 
Falling bodies can be used for various purposes as the fundamental force of gravity is pervasive and powerful over large distances. For this reason gravity acts as the central force in many systems. One such system is a set of falling balls in a line parallel to the direction of motion.. Each individual ball will accelerate downwards until it impacts something beneath it (the Earth or another ball) and bounces upwards. Assuming an elastic collision these impacts will abide by conservation of energy and linear momentum, which will be used to find the velocity of each ball after each collision. When the balls fall in this manner, their collisions will cause the balls to rise far higher than each would simply bouncing on it’s own. Using this we will attempt to find the number of balls necessary with varying masses and mass ratios to cause one ball to escape the Earth. This is the primary task of this paper, however other  interesting possibilities can be observed using this system such as sending a ball to the moon, to the sun or to other planets. Utilizing other forces, such the electromagnetic force on charged balls being pulled to a charged plate, we can also propel the balls in directions other than directly up. This could be utilized for other tasks such as putting a ball into orbit, or making a railgun. Finally on a different planet with an unbreakable crust with balls that similarly will not deform, we can find the number of balls necessary to accelerate the ball to speeds similar to those used in the Large Hadron Collider (0.999999991c). For each of these tasks varying the volume and mass of the balls will be necessary. Analysis of how the balls’ actions change as these do will also be analyzed below.
Previous Studies: //Honestly I looked for like thirty seconds and didn't see much of anything useful, but it was a very superficial glance. We'll just have to find something to put here...//
Methods: //Simply explain what we are doing and why. So talk about gravity, use Euler's method to calculate change in speed and position as the bodies fall. Also solving the energy and momentum equations for collisions. We are assuming ellastic colisions (though we can add damping) Then some of your indexing stuff to make an array of the necessary balls...//
